# Creating Components

## Part 2: Implementing MathSender Behavior


Edit the MathSender.cpp to implement the component behavior. Use a text editor to make the following edits to MathSender.cpp.


Fill in the DO_MATH command handler: You should see a stub handler for the DO_MATH command that looks like this:

```cpp
void MathSender ::
  DO_MATH_cmdHandler(
      const FwOpcodeType opCode,
      const U32 cmdSeq,
      F32 val1,
      MathOp op,
      F32 val2
  )
{
  // TODO
  this->cmdResponse_out(opCode,cmdSeq,Fw::CmdResponse::OK);
}
```

The handler DO_MATH_handler is called when the MathSender component receives a DO_MATH command. This handler overrides the corresponding pure virtual function in the auto-generated base class. Fill in the handler so that it looks like this:

```cpp
void MathSender ::
  DO_MATH_cmdHandler(
      const FwOpcodeType opCode,
      const U32 cmdSeq,
      F32 val1,
      MathOp op,
      F32 val2
  )
{
  this->tlmWrite_VAL1(val1);
  this->tlmWrite_OP(op);
  this->tlmWrite_VAL2(val2);
  this->log_ACTIVITY_LO_COMMAND_RECV(val1, op, val2);
  this->mathOpOut_out(0, val1, op, val2);
  this->cmdResponse_out(opCode, cmdSeq, Fw::CmdResponse::OK);
}
```

The first two arguments to the handler function provide the command opcode and the command sequence number (a unique identifier generated by the command dispatcher). The remaining arguments are supplied when the command is sent, for example, from the F Prime ground data system (GDS). The implementation code does the following:

    Emit telemetry and events.

    Invoke the mathOpOut port to request that MathReceiver perform the operation.

    Send a command response indicating success. The command response goes out on the special port cmdResponseOut.

In F Prime, every execution of a command handler must end by sending a command response. The proper behavior of other framework components (e.g., command dispatcher, command sequencer) depends upon adherence to this rule.

Check the build using:

```shell
# In: MathSender
fprime-util build
```

Fill in the mathResultIn handler: You should see a stub handler for the mathResultIn port that looks like this:

```cpp
void MathSender ::
  mathResultIn_handler(
      const NATIVE_INT_TYPE portNum,
      F32 result
  )
{
  // TODO
}
```
The handler mathResultIn_handler is called when the MathReceiver component code returns a result by invoking the mathResultIn port. Again the handler overrides the corresponding pure virtual function in the auto-generated base class. Fill in the handler so that it looks like this:

```cpp
void MathSender ::
  mathResultIn_handler(
      const NATIVE_INT_TYPE portNum,
      F32 result
  )
{
    this->tlmWrite_RESULT(result);
    this->log_ACTIVITY_HI_RESULT(result);
}
```

The implementation code emits the result on the RESULT telemetry channel and as a RESULT event report.

Check the build using:

```shell
# In: MathSender
fprime-util build
```

## Summary 
In this section you created the MathComponent and implemented the component's behavior. 